Nutbox and GNU
Nutbox is not GNU and GNU is not Nutbox.  Nutbox does not attempt to emulate or
surpass GNU tools in any way.  Nutbox is a small hobby project made by a single
programmer, GNU is a way of life made by hundreds of programmers.  Nonetheless,
some will wonder what the differences are between GNU and Nutbox.  This
document attempts to answer that question.

Roughly speaking, the differences are:

    1. Nutbox runs natively on Windows platforms whereas GNU tools must be
       hacked quite a bit to make them build on Windows (as far as I know).
    2. Nutbox also runs on Linux, Solaris, and Macintosh using Mono.  GNU 
       runs on a host of platforms - way too many to mention here - and is 
       probably ported to more platforms each and every day.  Nutbox will 
       forever be locked in on the Microsoft .NET platform for which reason 
       it cannot run on any other platforms than those that are supported
       by .NET or Mono.
    3. GNU tools attempt to solve every conceivable need under the sky, whereas
       Nutbox only attempts to solve the everyday needs of most people.  A
       typical GNU tool boasts twenty or more options.  A typical Nutbox tool
       has only two or three options.  This may change over time, but I am
       definitely not planning on spending my life adding options to Nutbox.
    4. GNU tools are copylefted in such a manner that they may not be used in
       closed-source commercial tools.  I understand the reasoning behind this,
       but also remember how frustrating it was to be a software developer in
       need of tools that could be shipped in products.  Nutbox is Public
       Domain, meaning that everybody may do whatever they like with it - even
       commercially.
    5. GNU tools are ancient (many of them stem back from the seventies or
       eighties), whereas Nutbox tools are in their infancy.  This translates
       to: Few features, occasional bugs, and lots to desire.
    6. GNU tools on Windows are normally 32-bit tools.  Nutbox uses .NET for
       which reason the program "adapts itself" to the host platform and runs
       as a native 32-bit application on 32-bit platforms and as a native
       64-bit application on 64-bit platforms (I myself use Windows x64).
    7. GNU tools often depend on a host of other GNU tools.  Nutbox only
       depends upon a freely available command-line compiler from either
       Microsoft (included in .NET) or from Novell (included in Mono).  Nutbox
       is thus pretty straigthforward to dig into and munge about with.
    8. GNU is included in most Linux distrubutions by default (for which reason
       GNU insists that Linux should be called GNU/Linux).  Nutbox is so new,
       only a couple of weeks old at the time of this writing, that nobody has
       included it anywhere.  I personally doubt that Nutbox will ever be
       included in a Linux distribution: The GNU tools are better, bigger,
       perhaps even faster, and widely used.  Some of the Nutbox tools, such as
       'pathcheck' might make sense to include in a Linux distro, but I have to
       see it done before I will believe it.
    9. GNU is intended to supplement *nix environments (which are typically
       fairly well-equipped in terms of additional console commands) for which
       reason GNU has to add lots and lots of features.  Nutbox is primarily
       intended to supplement Windows environments for which reason only very
       little has to be done (because Windows is so poor in terms of additional
       console utilities).
   10. GNU is out on a mission: To conquer the world with free software.
       Nutbox is just a hobby project, which means I work on it when I have
       some spare time - and feel like it!
   11. GNU tools are generally NOT Unicode aware.  Nutbox tools are generally
       Unicode aware.  A great example of this is the Nutbox 'strings' command:
       It is capable of extracting and displaying Unicode strings embedded in
       binary files, whereas GNU 'strings' does not handle Unicode strings
       (actually, I think it does, but Nutbox is thoroughly Unicode aware).