Nutbox Maintainer's Introduction
Welcome to the Nutbox source code.  It is written purely in C# and all commands
use a standard format that ensures consistent and predictable behavior:

    1. Each command is stored in its own subdirectory off the src subdirectory.
    2. Each command consists of two files: foo.cs and foo.hlp.
    3. The program code of each command is stored in foo/foo.cs, where 'foo' is
       a sample name for a command.
    4. The help text (documentation) for each command is stored in foo/foo.hlp,
       where 'foo' is a sample command name.
    5. Each program module (foo.cs) defines two classes: Setup and Program.
    6. foo.Setup always derives from Nutbox.Setup.  foo.Setup defines all the
       options and parameters, and the command-line syntax of the command in
       question.
    7. foo.Program contains the main program code.
    8. The Main() program of foo only creates an instance of foo.Setup and
       foo.Program and then transfers control to base.Main(Setup).
    9. base.Main(Setup) then takes care of the following things:

        a. Parsing the parameters (by invoking Nutbox.Setup to do that).
        b. Displaying the logo, if the --logo option is specified (not used
           anymore).
        c. Displaying the help text, if the --help option is specified
           (this causes the program to exit with a status of two).
        e. Invoking foo.Main(Setup) to execute the actual program code.
        f. Catching exceptions and printing suitable error messages.

So the model is:

    1. The program creates a program.Setup instance, which is defined to match
       the needs of the program.  The Setup instance defines all the 
       properties that the program has. 
    2. The constructor of the program.Setup instance defines the options and
       other parameters accepted by the program by calling base.Add().
    3. The program then passes on the parameters and the newly created Setup
       instance to Nutbox.Program.Main(Setup, string[]).
    4. Nutbox.Program.Main() then asks Nutbox.Setup to parse the parameters
       according to the rules defined by program.Setup.Setup().
    5. Nutbox.Program.Main() then INVOKES program.Main(Setup), by doing a sort
       of callback, which then implements the program code.
    6. Nutbox.Program.Main() is the sole agent that handles exceptions.  This
       is done this way to ensure CONSISTENCY and PREDICTABILITY: That ALL
       commands work precisely the same way when it comes to handling
       exceptions.  If new exceptions are added to the Nutbox system, only
       Nutbox.Program.Main() needs to be modified.

Other notes:

    1. Member variables (fields) are generally named mXxx, where Xxx is the
       actual name of the member variable.  This is supplemented by proper
       properties of the form Xxx: The property Xxx returns mXxx in its 'get'
       method and updates mXxx in its 'set' method.
    2. The code is written with readability and maintainability in mind, not
       speed.  The only reason I do 'if (text.Length == 0)' checks (instead of
       'if (text == "")') is because Microsoft's FxCop whines on the latter
       form - even though it is ten times more readable than the first form.
    3. I generally strive to, but have not yet accomplished, FxCop compliance.
       Some things will never be done the FxCop way, I think, in Nutbox because
       a few of the FxCop requirements are lame.  Most of them are very
       sensible, though.
    4. AssemblyInfo.cs is EMBEDDED into the various command's source files.  I
       choose to do so because I cannot see any need for an external
       AssemblyInfo.cs file - and I hate to forget things just because I never
       accidentally stumble across them.  By putthing them at the very
       beginning of each source file, I am certain that I will eventually see
       the AssemblyInfo attributes - and therefore discover errors in them.
    5. The version number if bumped using the Nutbox 'fileedit' command:

         fileedit 0.11.11.0=0.12.12.0 *.cs --recurse

    6. Options may appear anywhere in the command-line (this should be
       documented somewhere else, but now I've at least written it once).

.NET Version
Nutbox is currently built using the Microsoft.NET v4.0 compiler.  I 
occasionally build using Mono to test if everything works as expected.  Nutbox
also builds out-of-the-box using Microsoft.NET v2.0.

Patches
If you want to submit patches, please simply submit two things:

    1. The modified source files.
    2. The version number that the source files were when you started.

Then I'll do the tedious job of diffing and merging until everything's okay.
(I know about 'patch', etc., but I like to know about the changes to Nutbox.)

Code Reuse
Code is shared globally by putting it in the src/Nutbox directory.  It is
currently somewhat messy, but I will eventually get around to clean it up.
But it does contain some quite useful classes, methods, and types.  You are
welcome to copy and paste code from src/Nutbox into your own applications -
without stating anywhere that you did so (this is part of the Nutbox Public
Domain license!).
